After creating an elaborate program like this, it comes as a necessary part to do testing and bug fixing.
In this lecture, we are going to start running the code and testing its various different alternatives.
It is likely that we will encounter some errors and need to adjust the details of our code so we cannot
skip this part.
Let's get on with it and we're almost done for the final stage.
So we'll see you in Pi Charm.
And now for the long awaited moment has come.
We will see how our program works properly.
We have worked a lot and we have written a lot and now we are going to put all the machinery in motion.
To begin with, I must modify something in Python called configuration.
Remember that for system cells works as we expect.
We have to go to run then to debug, to edit configurations and finally we set here in this window that
emulate terminal is activated so that the console can be cleaned.
If you don't have it activated, do it then click on play.
I already had it activated.
Now if we're going to execute it inside, run and we choose our file.
My recipes.
So our first screen welcomes us and tells us that the recipes are where they're supposed to be and that
the total number of recipes is eight.
We then have our option menu containing six options.
So let's start with an incorrect option to see if it works as it should.
Type in a letter here.
The letter Q and it tells me again, choose an option.
This seems to work fine.
Let's choose an option.
That is correct.
Such as one.
And it shows me that the options again.
So something is wrong here.
Remember that it is normal if the first test of such long programs have some errors.
If when I type in that letter, it shows me again the same menu.
That means that there is something wrong with the output of the while loop.
So let's pay attention here.
We have said that as long as the menu choice is not numeric or the integer of menu, choice is not within
a range of 1 to 6.
It should enter the loop and in fact it does enter the loop, but we're not being able to do it.
It's stop it from repeating the loop.
Let's move on.
Menu choice then becomes the user's input and then it returns.
Menu choice.
Of course, this seems to be the cause.
The problem we have here is the user's choice is an input, which, as we know, are strings, and we
need to process it as an integer.
Otherwise we're never going to get all the conditions for the while confirmed.
So here we have a method, something which is to make menu choice to be casted with an integer.
Let's see if it works right.
We stop the execution and start over.
Okay.
It seems to work fine.
So here we have our welcome.
We have everything as it was.
If we type A wrong letter like Q, it tells us choose an option.
If we put in a number that is not inside the menu like nine.
It asks us to choose an option again.
So now I'm going to choose option number one.
And I have entered the categories which I did not do before.
So let's choose the first one, which is meat.
Then it reads recipes and shows me that there are two recipes in that folder.
I'm so hungry.
Let's choose option two.
This is to read a recipe and when we put two, it shows me that the content that I've stored in that
recipe, because what I've stored inside each recipe we can open.
This one, for example, is nothing more than a text to verify if I'm reading it right.
So now it tells me to press B to go back to the menu.
I'm going to press Q and it's going to tell me the same again.
I press 45 and it happens again.
Now I press B in lowercase and it takes me correctly to the beginning.
So far, read recipe works fine.
So let's choose now.
Create new recipe with two.
We choose a category.
I choose three.
So far so good.
It says, Write the name of your recipe.
My recipe is going to be, for example, mashed potatoes.
Then we need to type inside.
This is the recipe for mashed potatoes and it notifies me your recipe.
Mashed potatoes text has been created.
And yes, as a matter of fact, I come inside here.
And where did I store it?
Oh, in pasta.
Okay, it's not pasta.
But anyway, now I have a new recipe.
Mashed potatoes.
Whose content is this?
Is the recipe for mashed potatoes.
My program has been able to create a file that is now in the real world, or so to speak, in my folder
directory.
This time we type B but capitalized to return and we see that it works fine because we set lower as
the method.
Let's see what happens with the third option, which is create new category.
So we type in three, ask me to write the name of the new category.
My new category is going to be called entries.
It says Your new category entries has been created.
We can see here inside recipes.
Entries is a new category which is of course empty.
So we go back to our program and we put B to return and now we choose option four, which is to delete
a recipe.
So I would delete mashed potatoes and go to pasta number four.
And here we have our mashed potatoes.
Our menu changes the number of categories or recipes automatically according to the number of elements
that it finds in each category.
So here we're going to eliminate two, which is mashed potatoes.
It tells me the recipe mashed potatoes has been deleted, and if I take a look at my folder, we go
back to pasta and we no longer have mashed potatoes.
B Again to return and let's focus on option number five, which is delete category.
And I would delete the option that I just created, which is entries.
It notifies me that it has been deleted.
So I'll check by going to the folder and seeing that I no longer have that fifth category here, which
was entries.
So I'm changing my menu accordingly.
And the last option was to exit the program option six.
So we put six and we have finished the execution of our code.
So don't worry, if you find that there are problems in your code, you look for them and solve them
and you do whatever it takes and you're going to get it done.
So congratulations.
We have succeeded in developing a completely new program that is part of everyday life, so we're one
more step closer to becoming expert programmers.
So congratulate yourself and let's have a rest.
So it's been a long day and let's switch off and call it a day together.
So I'll see you in the next lesson.